This morning, we're talking about that clever strategy of Satan designed to lure people
away from Jehovah God.
And so we're going to examine two approaches.
One he used with the youngest intelligent creature in the universe, and the other he used
on the oldest intelligent creature in the universe.
So let's take the youngest first course that was Eve.
So taking advantage of her inexperience, his purpose was to trick this woman and to seduce
her.
Now, how would he do it?
Well, as we know, he was behind a serpent.
He didn't want to show her who he really was, what his aim really was.
His choice of words also revealed a lot in our text is Genesis chapter 3.
Let's go there, if you would, to like to just read his question again, Genesis chapter
3 verse 1, did God really say that you must not eat from every tree of the garden?
Now what was his motive in asking this question?
Well, as was stated in one of the commenters, what he was trying to do was to see a doubt
in her mind, implying that Jehovah God was holding something back from her.
He was too restrictive on you.
Well, it's interesting concerning questions.
The BE book, Benefit from Theocratic Ministry of School Education on page 66 says,
some questions are like icebergs.
The most substantial part lies hidden beneath the surface, an underlying issue is often
more important than the question itself.
And in the case of Eve, when the question was asked, she didn't see the underlying purpose
of the question.
Her answer in verses 2 and 3 indicate this, she said, we made of the fruit of the trees
of the garden.
But God has said about the fruit of the tree that is in the middle of the garden, you
must not eat from it, no, you must not touch it, otherwise you will die.
Her answer was truthful, and it was an honest, innocent answer.
But Satan had her exactly where he wanted her.
You see, he was banking on her self-interest that she would be more interested in herself,
her own needs than she was the love she had for, the God that gave her everything that
she had.
Read his words again in verses 4 and 5, Satan said, you certainly will not die.
For God knows, in the very day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you'll
be like God, knowing good and bad.
Gradually, his gamble worked.
She had not cultivated the kind of love and appreciation for Jehovah God that she should
have.
So what can we learn from this example?
Well, if a perfect human can succumb to this kind of irrational reasoning, really, it
could happen to any of us, Jehovah God created us as free moral agents, that's the way
you made Eve.
He doesn't want robots.
He wants us to be able to think things through and make the right choices, decide between
right and wrong.
Satan is counting on us making the wrong choices.
Now what can we do to counter that attack from Satan?
Well we have to know what is in our hearts.
To go to Hebrews chapter 12, verses 15 and 16, the Apostle Paul gives a warning to his
fellow Christians against becoming people not appreciating sacred things, and that's
sort of the context of these verses 15 and 16, he says carefully watch that no one fails
to obtain the undeserved kindness of God, so that no poisonous root springs up to cause
trouble and many be defiled by it, and watch that among you there is no one who is sexually
immoral, nor anyone who does not appreciate sacred things.
So there is a need, as he said here, to in verse 15, carefully watch, carefully watch
that no poisonous root will spring up and contaminate the congregation.
The expression poisonous root refers to a few that may be in a congregation who may find
fault with the way things are done.
Maybe even find fault with way Jehovah has, the direction Jehovah has given on matters.
Maybe the sacredness of marriage are the need for moral cleanness.
So we don't want to be those kind of people obviously.
But tell me what's necessary before a root can appear?
Well, a seed has to be planted, and then it germinates, and then it grows into a root.
So it's at the seed level that we have to give special attention.
We have to learn to identify these improper seeds as it were.
No one can do that for us because they can't read a heart.
The seed may even, we've never even voiced what the seed is, but it could be in our thinking
and in our heart.
And these internal weaknesses has to be addressed for fear we find ourselves in a circumstance
maneuvered by Satan to accentuate that particular weakness.
Now James chapter 114 and 15 really describes the process well.
James 114 and 15, where he says, each one's tried by being drawn out and enticed by his own
desire, own desire.
Then the desire seed, when it has become fertile, starts to grow, gives birth to sin and
turns sin when it has been carried out, brings forth death.
So being enticed by his own desire, does that sound familiar?
It's a powerful force.
It's one that happened to Eve, the self interests, they're similar.
So do we need, what do we need to do?
Well as we said earlier, identify the seed or a seed, if that may be the case.
Don't let them germinate, don't let them start to grow, rid ourselves of that thinking.
And if a poisonous root may happen to be in us or starting to grow, then we need to rip
it out and you may need to have help to do it, it may be impossible to remove a poisonous
root by yourself.
Now let's spend a few moments on the approach Satan used for the oldest intelligent creature
in the universe, of course Christ Jesus.
Now in his case, he didn't try to hide himself, he realized there was no need to do that.
Jesus knew exactly who he was.
He understood the motive.
And so he just went overtly right to Jesus, and as you know in the account of Matthew 4,
he said, look, just fall down and do an act of worship to me.
So what does it tell us about Satan?
Well, he has long been driven by jealousy over the worship that goes to Jehovah God.
And he's going to go to any link possible to try to violate our worship to Jehovah God.
He wants to pervert our worship to Jehovah God.
And so if he has enough boldness to approach the Jesus Christ, then we know he will approach
any one of us, and it makes no difference how strong spiritually we look on the outside,
he will try to break our integrity.
Clearly the Bible reveals that Satan is a deadly strategist in seeking his aims.
Happily though, we don't have to be like Eve because we know the designs of Satan the
devil.
May each of us cultivate the kind of love Jesus had for a Jehovah God.
So we too can stand firm in our integrity.